---
id: "dashboard-and-metrics/display-currency"
title: "Display Currency"
description: "By default the RevenueCat Dashboard is set to use USD as the display currency, but this can be modified through Account Settings to view your data in other supported currencies."
permalink: "/docs/dashboard-and-metrics/display-currency"
slug: "display-currency"
version: "current"
original_source: "docs/dashboard-and-metrics/display-currency.md"
---

By default the RevenueCat Dashboard is set to use USD as the display currency, but this can be modified through Account Settings to view your data in other supported currencies.

## Modifying your display currency

To modify the display currency being used for your account, simply:

1. Click on [Account](https://app.revenuecat.com/settings/account)
2. Under the [Date and Region section](https://app.revenuecat.com/settings/dateregion), click the Display Currency dropdown to display the list of available currencies
3. Select the currency you'd like to switch to
4. Click **Update** to save your changes

After you've made this change, the Dashboard will be updated to use your specified display currency in all supported features.

:::info Display currency is set per account
Each individual RevenueCat account has its own specified display currency that can be updated at any time. If a team member you're collaborating with prefers to use a different display currency than USD, they'll need to follow these steps to update their account settings as well.
:::

### Supported currencies

We currently support the following display currencies:

1. USD: United States Dollar (Default)
2. EUR: Euro
3. GBP: British Pound Sterling
4. AUD: Australian Dollar
5. CAD: Canadian Dollar
6. JPY: Japanese Yen
7. BRL: Brazilian Real
8. KRW: South Korean Won
9. CNY: Chinese Yuan
10. MXN: Mexican Peso
11. SEK: Swedish Krona
12. PLN: Polish Zloty

## How we convert purchases from one currency to another

When processing a purchase, we always convert its price to USD based on the exchange rate from the purchased currency to USD on the purchase date. To support additional display currencies, we then convert from USD to the desired display currency based on the exchange rate on the purchase date.

**Considerations**

- For measures like MRR (monthly recurring revenue), which are a function of a subscription's purchase price, they reflect MRR as of the purchase date of each underlying subscription
- For measure like Realized LTV (lifetime value), which will be reported through customer cohorts (e.g. a customer's first seen date or first purchase date), they reflect the revenue generated from each underlying transaction exchanged to the display currency as of each transaction's purchase date

## Supported features

1. **Overview**: The Overview page will display Revenue and MRR in your set display currency.
2. **Charts**: Almost all charts support display currencies, including the Revenue chart, MRR chart, and the Realized LTV charts.
3. **Customer Lists**: Your set display currency will be used when calculating the revenue generated by a given list of customers. In addition, when exporting a list of customers, the `total_spent` column will be provided in your display currency, which you can reference through the `currency` field in the export.
4. **Customer Profile**: Revenue generating events in a customer's history will use your set display currency.

### Unsupported features

At this time, Experiments and Scheduled Data Exports do not support display currencies. In Experiments, results will continue to be provided in USD. In Scheduled Data Exports, transactions will be provided with both the `price_in_purchased_currency` and `price_in_usd`.

In addition, display currency will have no impact on event delivery. Webhooks and 3rd-party integrations have varying support for providing prices in non-USD currencies.
